Adds `vitest` for testing client code (#1055)
wasp-lang/wasp: web/docs/testing.md

> ---

Reviewer: After you merge the main branch, I think you should see a `guides` folder, I would suggest we keep all the guides there. I didn't migrate anything yet there, but we can start putting new things there.

title: Testing
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

import AddExternalAuthEnvVarsReminder from './_addExternalAuthEnvVarsReminder.md'

:::info
Wasp is in beta, so keep in mind there might be some kinks / bugs, and possibly some changes with testing support in the future.
If you encounter any issues, reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/rzdnErX) and we will make sure to help you out!
:::

> # Web App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Testing your React app
```

> Wasp enables you to quickly and easily write both unit tests and React component tests for your frontend code. Becase we already use [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/), we were able to add many additional testing capabilities by giving you an integrated [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) experience out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wasp enables you to quickly and easily write both unit tests and React component tests for your frontend code. Because we already use [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/), we also support testing the web app by giving you an integrated [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) experience out of the box.
```

:::note
You should not run `wasp test` while running `wasp start`, as both will attempt to compile and write your project to `.wasp/out`.
:::

## Examples
### Unit Tests

```ts title=src/client/Todo.test.tsx
import { test, expect } from 'vitest'

import { areThereAnyTasks } from './Todo'

test('areThereAnyTasks', () => {
  expect(areThereAnyTasks([])).toBe(false)
})
```

### React Component Tests

```ts title=src/client/Todo.test.tsx
import { test, expect } from 'vitest'
import { screen } from '@testing-library/react'

import { mockServer, renderInContext } from '@wasp/test'
import getTasks from '@wasp/queries/getTasks'
import Todo from './Todo'

const { mockQuery } = mockServer()

const mockTasks = [{
  id: 1,
  description: 'test todo 1',
  isDone: true,
  userId: 1
}]

test('handles mock data', async () => {
  mockQuery(getTasks, mockTasks)

  renderInContext(<Todo />)

  await screen.findByText('test todo 1')

  expect(screen.getByRole('checkbox')).toBeChecked()

  screen.debug()
})
```

#### React Testing Helpers

Wasp provides two React testing helpers:

> - `mockQuery`: Takes a Wasp Query (or an object of type `{ route: { method: string; path: string; } }`) to mock and the JSON data to return. This is helpful if your Query uses `useQuery`. Behind the scenes, this uses `msw` to create a server request handler that responds with the provided JSON to an HTTP request for the operation's endpoint. Request handlers are cleared after each test.
> - `renderInContext`: Takes a React component, wraps it inside a `QueryClientProvider` and `Router`, and renders it.

Reviewer: This makes it a bit more readable for me:
```suggestion
- `mockQuery`: Takes a Wasp Query to mock and the JSON data to return.
  - This is helpful if your Query uses `useQuery`.
  - Behind the scenes, this uses `msw` to create a server request handler that responds with the provided JSON to an HTTP request for the operation's endpoint.
  - Request handlers are cleared after each test.
- `renderInContext`: Takes a React component, wraps it inside a `QueryClientProvider` and `Router`, and renders it.
```

> # Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Testing your server-side code
```
